OSSM_13620_nftables (#111267)
openshift/openshift-docs: update/ossm-preparing-for-rhel-10-migration.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: ASSEMBLY
[id="ossm-preparing-for-rhel-10-migration"]
= Preparing for Red Hat Enterprise Linux 10 migration
include::_attributes/common-attributes.adoc[]

> :context: ossm-preparing-for-rhel-10-migration

Reviewer: Since we are talking about RHEL10 migration which covers areas beyond nftables,  I'd like rzago@redhat.com to take a look at the updated content to see if we want to add something to this doc.

toc::[]

[role="_abstract"]
To run {SMProductShortName} 3.3 on {op-system-base-full} 10 nodes, you must configure the service mesh to use `nftables` for network redirection. This migration is required because {op-system-base-full} 10 uses the `nftables` framework exclusively and no longer supports legacy `iptables`.

== About nftables support in {SMProductShortName}

{SMProductShortName} relies on a packet-filtering backend to intercept and redirect application traffic to the service mesh data plane. Because {op-system-base-full} 10 removes the `iptables` framework, you must enable the `nativeNftables` parameter in your {istio} and `IstioCNI` resources.

> Enabling this parameter allows the {istio} CNI plugin to detect the host's capabilities and use `nft` commands for redirection. In mixed clusters, the service mesh continues to use `iptables` on legacy nodes (such as {op-system-base-full} 9) while using `nftables` on {op-system-base-full} 10 nodes, ensuring a smooth transition during node migration.

Reviewer: Instead of saying "legacy" nodes, probably we can say "non-RHEL10" nodes.

```suggestion
Enabling this parameter allows the {istio} CNI plugin to detect the host's capabilities and use `nft` commands for redirection. In mixed clusters, the service mesh continues to use `iptables` on non-{op-system-base-full} 10 nodes while using `nftables` on {op-system-base-full} 10 nodes, ensuring a smooth transition during node migration.
```

[IMPORTANT]
====
Enable `nativeNftables` **before** you add {op-system-base-full} 10 nodes to your cluster. If this support is not enabled, service mesh components such as the `istio-cni` agent and the Ztunnel proxy will fail to initialize on the new nodes.

> ====

Reviewer: I think we can add a note specifically for **Ambient mode** as described here.
https://github.com/istio-ecosystem/sail-operator/blob/main/docs/common/istio-nftables.adoc#upgrade-in-ambient-mode

Author: Done
